what I have here is the new Roland g5
guitar from edits it's actually a Fender
Strat but it's got digital components
inside under this box right there made
by roland this is roland virtual guitar
technology pioneered with the early
roland v guitar systems and our current
be system is called the VG 99 and it's
on the table right there the silver p
and the VG 99 is the top-of-the-line
flagship digital modeling from roland
but inside this strategy is a lot of the
technology from the BG 99 and what the
technology allows the guitar player to
do is to change sounds drastically or
subtly and also change tunings so the
traditional gender knobs are still on
the guitar and Roland took off one to
the tone knob so we just have one master
tone knob and then they added an extra
toe knob and this is for I mean an extra
tuning knob this is to tune the guitar
and this is the guitar model so if we
listen to the guitar that's the real
guitar by itself
it sounds like a good strap and that's
what it actually is a good strat then if
i press the mob turn the model button
I'm going to turn this to a digital
strategy
but I can change the tuning
Alan's one drop D tuning
notice up here none of the tuners change
so I can also switch it to open G tuning
which is Keith Richards famous tuning
open Jesus
keith also played a Telecaster so I can
switch that model over here to it Kelly
maybe this assembly
of the Jeter knees
I've opened deep shooting this is a d
modal or it's often referred to as Dada
Dada da da dee
I haven't talked at all about the guitar
models I'm glad I did switch to a
Telecaster now gonna switch it into an
acoustic guitar
nekoosa guitar with the dadgad type
tuning
not only are we tuning the guitar but
we're changing an electric guitar fender
stratocaster into an acoustic guitar we
can also change it into a new well
string guitar
we're just playing to a regular amp I
haven't changed it's actually not a
regular app it's a really good rolling
down but i have it set to just a total
clean sound let's say we wanted to do
something really heavy I'm kind of kind
of a slipknot fan yeah yeah so now my
guitar is tuned down a fourth lower that
so now I'm tuned word Jim Root tunes and
he plays a Telecaster signals lick the
Jolly faster you don't psychosocial
we
yes
anyway that from the sounds that I just
played all I did it turned a little
distortion distortion on and switch my
tuning to the baritone so that lowered
all my notes any notes that would be
there are lowered down five frets how
many tunings to do on this well you have
normal tuning you count that one then
drop D open G for the Keith Richards
dadgad the baritone and then the closed
string so that's I don't know seven
sigma six tunings and several different
guitar models my name is Paul Hanson I'm
from Roland and thanks for listening to
my brief description of the fender
Roland strap and stay tuned for my
full-length demo